Hello everyone and welcome back in this lecture we're going to be discussing creating your first Django
project in the future lectures will actually discuss the difference between a Django project and a jingle
application.
But by the end of this lecture we should be able to actually run a jingle project a little server locally
and see it in our browser.
In case you haven't done so already you'll need to install Django.
You can do that either with a condo install Django or for a normal Python distribution Pipp install
Django.
And remember if you're using a virtual environment you should activate the virtual environment before
running any of the command lines commands that we actually do throughout this section of the course.
So when you install Django It's actually also going to install a command line tool called Django that
adman and this command line tool is just a useful feature for us to quickly run things straight from
the command line so that we can do is create our first project and for that just go to your command
prompt activate your virtual environment.
If you haven't done so already and then say Django dash admin space start project space and then whatever
you want your project to be called.
In this case we will say first underscore project and then you're going to get something that looks
like this and we'll explain all these files are in just a second.
But before we do let's actually run this code I'm going to jump to the Adam text editor open up a command
prompt and run through this.
All right here I am at the Adam text editor what I will do is open up a new terminal or command prompt
and I'm going to change directory to my desktop and actually making new folder.
So I will say M-K d i r Let's make directory.
Same for Mac or Windows users.
And I'm just going to make a new folder on my desktop to contain all the jingle code that we're going
to be working with for this particular section.
Of course if you already have a folder like that you can just change directory into that folder.
But what I will do is I will say my Django stuff so I will make that directory and then it will CD into
my jingoes stuff.
And there I have it.
So I have a directory made and while I do now it's just add that to Adam so I will save file add a project
folder go to my desktop my jingle stuff is there select that folder and I can see it here now.
Great.
So now let's actually create that first project using that Django dash adamant command line tool.
Before we do that though I'm going to want to activate the virtual environment I created in the previous
lecture.
If you're not using a virtual environment that's OK.
Just make sure you've installed Django.
I will say activate member if using Mac or Linux you want to say Source activate and then the name of
the jungle environment and that one was just called my Shingo ENP.
Enter And now that's activated and then what am I going to do is it's the jing a command line tool oh
say Jingle dash Addleman start project and then whatever you want to call this very first project or
working on this case I'll keep it simple and just say first underscore project enter.
And this is actually going to create that first project.
So what you'll notice now is in this directory I've created my first project here and here I have the
first project folder and you should have a nested folder of the same name and then a couple of files
in it that PI file settings that PI Urals up-I there'll be less G-I and then managed top pi.
Well we're going to do now is take a little bit of time to explain.
Each of these files does.
And you'll notice that one of them is empty.
That's OK that's the way it should be.
And what I want you to do is check out these various files as I go along.
Back to the presentation and explain in very brief detail what all of these files actually are doing.
Let's hop back the presentation.
OK so here are the command lines we just initiated and after that we should get something like this.
So let's take a little bit of time to explain what's actually going on here.
Let's go first through that and get that PI file.
So that underscore underscore it underscore underscore that PI file that's actually just a blank Python
script and due to its special name it lets Python know that this directory can be treated as a package.
Then we have these settings that py file.
And this is where we're actually going to be storing all of our project settings.
Then we have the Jor-El's that PI file and this is essentially a Python script that's going to store
all the usual patterns for your project and that's basically going to relate to the different pages
of your web application and how they should connect to the end user.
Now keep in mind this particular file is really going to make a lot of use of regular expressions.
So before tackling this you're stopped by file and feature lectures.
Make sure you review the regular expressions lecture from the Python section of this course.
Now we have that w SGI that py file and that's a Python script that acts as the web server Gateway Interface.
And essentially what is going to help us with is later on when we actually want to deploy our web app
to production on some online server that file's going to help us out there.
Then we have the managed up pie and that's under that top directory.
And this is a Python script that we're going to be using a lot.
It's going to be associated with many of the commands we use as we build our web project and web application.
OK so now let's actually use managed up high in your command line.
What I want you to do is after activating your virtual environment of course type python space managed
up pie space run server.
So here what we can actually see what's happening is we're calling Python to run that managed up py
file and off of that py file we actually want to specifically call that run server command.
And what you're going to see is a bunch of stuff but at the bottom you should see something that looks
like this.
Your particular version of Django the settings you're using.
And then it's starting a development server at a your l.
Now what you will do is copy and paste that your URL into your browser and you should now see a very
first web page being locally hosted on your computer.
And that's a big congratulatory step because you now just ran your very first single project.
Let me walk you through all of that.
Back at the Adam text editor.
All right we're back at the Adam text editor and before we run that Python managed up PI run server
command.
I want to make sure I'm in the right directory so that I can actually find that when I call it.
So notice here that if I collapse that folder it's under my Gengel stuff under first project.
The very first folder.
So I will do here is CD to that verse project folder and here's where I'm going to call that actual
command.
I will say Python managed up PI run server and then hit enter and actually run this.
OK.
So you'll notice I get some outputs here and sometimes you'll actually get a warning in red coloring
but here due to this newer version of Jingo it's not such a noticeable red warning but it will tell
you that you have some un applied migrations and we'll talk about that in just a little bit.
More importantly we see here that it's starting the development server at this particular your l.
So what I want you to do is copy this just right click that and copy it or just type it straight into
your browser and put it into your browser.
All right so I jumped to my browser and I've typed then that your L and you'll get something that looks
like this.
It worked.
Congratulations on your first jingle powered page.
So this is pretty awesome.
We actually have something running locally on our computer and it says welcome to Django as the title.
And of course we haven't actually done any work yet but the next step is to actually start our first
application by running something that looks like this.
And we'll talk about that in just a second.
But a quick little message.
It'll say something like you're seeing this because you have debug is equal to true.
So inner jingoes settings file.
We actually have a debug option that we can set to True or false.
And we'll talk about that later on in future lectures.
And as we build our Web site we'll always have it to True.
But will actually push something to production we'll make sure to turn it to false.
So that way if an error arises the user doesn't have access to our debugging tools with Django.
OK.
Now what I want to talk about is that migrations warning.
So if I minimize this and come back to right here in Adam we see we have 13 UN applied migrations.
Let's take a little bit of time to discuss what migrations actually are and how they relate to that
database when you're using Django.
All right so as we just noted we have our very first Django powered application or project running locally
in our computer.
So a big congratulations to you pat yourself on the back.
But as I mentioned we noticed that warning about migrations and this has to do with databases and how
to connect them to Django.
The question arises what is a migration will a migration that allows you to move databases from one
design to another.
And this is also reversible and that's why it's called the migration.
Let's see you have a database and you want to edit a new field or add something like a new column.
You can go ahead and migrate those changes over and you can actually reverse that as well.
So you can migrate your database.
We're going to touch back on the Slaters specialty actually talk about connecting jingo to a database.
But for now you can ignore this warning.
I know it says in that command prompt to run some sort of migrations command at the command line.
Right now we'll just back off on this and keep it in the back of our minds.
So that was it as far as the basics of getting started with Django.
We started our first single project.
But up next we're going to continue creating a very simple hello world change application.
I hope you're excited because now we're actually going to get right into the nitty gritty of working
with Django.
Thanks everyone.
And I will see you at the next lecture.